move segmentation 1d and 3d to tutorials/ (#103)
brainglobe/brainglobe.github.io: docs/source/tutorials/segmenting-1d-tracks.md

# Segmenting a 1D track

> In this tutorial, you will use the [brainglobe-segmentation](../documentation/brainglobe-segmentation/index.md) plugin for [napari](https://napari.org) to segment a 1D track, such as a fibre track, or a silicone probe track. As a prerequisite, you will need to have registered your data to an atlas [using `brainreg`](../documentation/brainreg/index.md) and know what folder you saved this in (your "`brainreg` output directory"). If you don't have this, please follow [our registration tutorial](./tutorial-whole-brain-registration.md) first.

Reviewer: This always trips me up. Silicon is the element that we make chips out of, silicone is bathroom sealant :rofl: 
```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will use the [brainglobe-segmentation](../documentation/brainglobe-segmentation/index.md) plugin for [napari](https://napari.org) to segment a 1D track, such as a fibre track, or a silicon probe track. As a prerequisite, you will need to have registered your data to an atlas [using `brainreg`](../documentation/brainreg/index.md) and know what folder you saved this in (your "`brainreg` output directory"). If you don't have this, please follow [our registration tutorial](./tutorial-whole-brain-registration.md) first.
```

The focus of this tutorial is simply to successfully register a single, straight 1D track. For more information about how to process silicon probe tracks, please see [Silicon probe tracking](/tutorials/silicon-probe-tracking). 

:::{note}
You will need `napari` installed on your computer - please follow [`napari`'s installation instructions](https://napari.org/stable/tutorials/fundamentals/installation.html) to do so (including their recommendation to use a `conda` environment).
:::

1. Open `napari`.
2. Install `brainglobe-segmentation` by selecting `Plugins > Install/Uninstall plugins` and searching for `brainglobe-segmentation` in the searchbox. If it is not installed yet, click on the `Install` button.

:::{caution}

> On Silicon Macs you may have to `conda install hdf5` first for the installation to be successful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Silicon Macs you may have to run `conda install hdf5` on the command line (in your conda environment) first for the installation to be successful.
```

6. Select the `Track tracing` button in the `Segmentation` panel.
7. Click the `Add track` button.

![Segmenting a 1D track](./images/brainglobe-segmentation/brainglobe-segmentation-added-new-track.png)
**A new Points layer named `track_0` appears on the left hand side.**

8. If required, rename the track (by selecting the `track_0` text).
9. Navigate in the image to where you want to draw your track.
10. Make sure the add points mode is activated (by selecting the `+` symbol on the top left - find out [more about how to add/delete/select points in napari](https://napari.org/stable/howtos/layers/points.html#adding-deleting-and-selecting-points)).
11. Trace your track by clicking along it. You can add as many, or as few, points as you like, and this can be done in 3D by changing the viewer plane as you go along.

![Segmenting a 1D track](./images/brainglobe-segmentation/brainglobe-segmentation-added-points.png)

**Points appear where you've clicked in the image**

:::{caution}
Make sure you select the points in the order you wish them to be joined.
:::

> 12. (Optional) If the brain surface is damaged, you may not be able to trace perfectly from the surface. If you want to add an additional first point at the surface of the brain, click `Add surface points`. Selecting this option will add an additional point at the closest part of the brain surface to the first point, so that the track starts there.

Reviewer: I think the original wording might have been mine (?), but I think it's better to just explain what the button does, and not get into the why (which is debatable anyway).
```suggestion
12. (Optional) If you want to add an additional first point exactly at the surface of the brain, click `Add surface points`. Selecting this option will add an additional point at the closest part of the brain surface (based on the registration) to the first point, so that the track starts there.
```

13. Join the points using spline interpolation by clicking `Trace tracks`. You can change:
  * `Summarise` - Defaults to on, this will save a csv file, showing the brain area for each part of the interpolated track (determined by `Spline points` )
  * `Save tracing` - Defaults to off. This will save your segmentation layer at the same time as running the analysis
  (this may make your analysis take longer)
  * `Fit degree` - What order spline fit to use (the default is 3, cubic)
  * `Spline smoothing` - How closely or not to fit the points (lower numbers fit more closely, for a less smooth interpolation)
  * `Spline points` - This doesn't affect the interpolation, but determines how many points are sampled from the interpolation (used for the summary)

>   * `Add surface points` - If the brain surface is damaged, you may not be able to trace perfectly from the surface. Selecting this option will add an additional point at the closest part of the brain surface to the first point, so that the track starts there.

Reviewer: See above
```suggestion
  * `Add surface points` - Selecting this option will add an additional point at the closest part of the brain surface to the first point, so that the track starts there.
```
